Creating the player and input in this video will cover capturing mouse input from the user and using
a target joint to restrict the asteroid's movement.
Then we'll use rigid body add force for the projectile motion of the asteroid.
The task breakdown here we have this is our screenshot goal.
We'll add a catapult prefab, add the catapult script, add the asteroid that will go in the catapult
and fly across the sky.
An asteroid.
C-sharp Script.
Let's open up Section five.
Video two.
Upset Ducks two.
We're going to open up upset ducks to.
And give it a play.
We see the addition here as a catapult and the asteroid we can mouse drag around and when we release
it shoots and we can hit spacebar to reset and choose any angle and it shoots.
So let's create that from scratch.
First, we'll get rid of the stuff that we're planning to create.
This video, the asteroid, the catapult, the two scripts.
And here we are.
So as a starting point, first thing we're going to create is the asteroid.
We'll bring out that sprite.
It looks like it's sized well already, so we don't have to scale it.
And we'll go ahead and add a rigid body circle collider and a target joint.
The target joint will turn off initially.
Then we're going to add our own custom script of asteroid.
Then selecting the asteroid sprite.
We'll rename it to simply asteroid and add our new script.
That's the basic setup.
Let's make that a prefab and then let's look at our asteroid script and start coding it.
We'll double click the asteroid script.
Now, this is what Unity gives us from the beginning.
I'm going to jump in and paste in what I've already created for us.
Let's take a look.
So we've extended mono behavior and I've used a few additional features to capture mouse clicks.
Then I've got some public properties of rigid body and target.
I keep track of if we've released this into the air or not, how far we're able to drag it.
Some serialized fields there.
We can also use a serialized flight speed, which we can set from the inspector to change how fast it
should move through the sky.
Then down here on update is how I handle the mouse input.
And on mouse down, I set that we're dragging and I turn the target joint.
On the target joint is what's going to restrict our movement so it doesn't let us drag too far.
And on pointer up, I release that.
And in the release is when I add the physics force, we'll see that familiar add force.
Let's play the scene.
Great.
Now let's add the catapult.
And we'll create a catapult script.
We open that up and let's paste in what I've created for us.
So here we've got the catapult.
I'm going to have an asteroid prefab the asteroid parent where it should be connected.
And the center point, the position it should be connected to.
When we wake up, I'll add an asteroid.
And what I do here is I instantiate a new asteroid game object from the prefab and set it in the right
position.
Notice down here I turn the target joint on Finally There.
That's what does the restriction.
Let's go ahead and wire that up.
And finally, we'll put it in the position.
And let's give it a play.
You know, I can see on the asteroid I'm missing a reference to the target joint and the rigid body.
Looks good.
The centre point is a bit off.
We'll raise that up.
Then give it a play.
Looks really good.
As a last adjustment, I see that the front Sprite needs to be a higher number than the asteroid itself.
So now the asteroid believably is between the two pieces of wood.
And that's it.
Thanks very much.
In the next video, we'll work on creating the obstacles.